---
layout: home
permalink: /references
title: "References"
excerpt: " <br>"
image:
  feature: /banners/development_banner.jpg
---
{% include toc.html class="toc-left" h_min=2 h_max=2 %}

  Alory, G., S. Wijffels., G. Meyers. 2007. Observed trends in the Indian Ocean over 1960-1999 and associated mechanisms. Geophysical Research Letters 34, L02606.


  Bouchet, P., Z. Huang, C. Phillips, J. Meeuwig, S. Foster, and R. Przeslawski. 2018. Comparative assessment of pelagic sampling platforms. University of Western Australia, Perth.


  Bowden, D. A., M. R. Clark, J. E. Hewitt, A. A. Rowden, D. Leduc, and S. J. Baird. 2015. Designing a programme to monitor trends in deep-water benthic communities. Wellington.


   Carroll, A.G., D.C. Jorgensen, P.J.W.,Siwabessy, L.E.A. Jones., M.J. Sexton, M. Tran, W.A. Nicholas, L.C. Radke, M.P. Carey, F.J.F. Howard, M.J. Stowar, A.J. Heyward, A. Potter, and Shipboard Party, 2012. Seabed environments and shallow geology of the Petrel Sub-Basin, northern Australia: SOL5463 (GA0335) - post survey report. Record 2012/66. Geoscience Australia: Canberra.


  Cinner, J.E., J. Zamborain-Mason, G.G. Gurney et al. 2020. Meeting fisheries, ecosystem funciton, and biodiveristy goals in a human-dominated world. Science 368 (6488): 307-311.


  Cochrane, P. 2016. The marine protected area estate in Australian (Commonwealth) waters. Pages 45-63 _in_ J. Fitzsimons and G. Westcott, editors. Big, Bold and Blue. CSIRO.


  De’ath, G., K. E. Fabricius, H. Sweatman, and M. Puotinen. 2012. The 27–year decline of coral cover on the Great Barrier Reef and its causes. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 109:17995-17999.


  Department of Biodiversity Conservation and Attractions. 2017. Marine Conservation Research. Government of Western Australia. [https://www.dpaw.wa.gov.au/about-us/science-and-research/marine-research](https://www.dpaw.wa.gov.au/about-us/science-and-research/marine-research)


  Donner, S.D., G.J.M. Rickbeil, and S.F. Heron. 2017 A new, high-resolution global mass coral bleaching database. PLoS ONE 12(4): e0175490. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0175490


  Duffy, J.E., L.A. Amaral-Zettler, D.G. Fautin, G. Paulay, T.A. Rynearson, H. M. Sosik, and J. J. Stachowicz. 2013. Envisioning a Marine Biodiversity Observation Network. BioScience 63:350-361.


  Durden, J.M., B.J. Bett, T. Schoening, K.J. Morris, T.W. Nattkemper, and H.A. Ruhl. 2016. Comparison of image annotation data generated by multiple investigators for benthic ecology. Marine Ecology Progress Series 552:61-70.


  Evans, K., N. Bax., and D. Smith. 2017. Australia state of the environment 2016: Marine Chapter. Independent report to the Australian Government Minister for Environment and Energy, Department of the Environment and Energy, Canberra.


  Fancy, S., G.J.E. Gross, and S.L. Carter. 2009. Monitoring the condition of natural resources in US national parks. Environmental Monitoring and Assessment 151:161-174.


  GBRMPA. 2015. Reef 2050 Integrated Monitoring and Reporting Program Strategy. Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority & Queensland Government, Townsville.


  Golden, J.S., J. Virdin, D. Nowacek, P. Halpin, L. Bennear, and P. G. Patil. 2017. Making sure the blue economy is green. Nature Ecology and Evolution 1:0017.


  Hayes, K. R., J. M. Dambacher, P. T. Hedge, D. Watts, S. D. Foster, P. A. Thompson, G. R. Hosack, P. K. Dunstan, and N. J. Bax. 2015. Towards a blueprint for monitoring Key Ecological features in the Commonwealth Marine Area. NERP Marine Biodiversity Hub, Hobart.


  Hedge, P., F. Molloy, H. Sweatman, K. Hayes, J. Dambacher, J. Chandler, M. Gooch, A. Chinn, N. Bax, and T. Walshe. 2013. An Integrated Monitoring Framework for the Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area. Department of the Environment, Canberra.


  Hosie, G. W., M. Fukuchi, and S. Kawaguchi. 2003. Development of the Southern Ocean Continuous Plankton Recorder survey. Progress in Oceanography 58:263-283.


  Lara-Lopez, A., Moltmann, T., Mancini, S., Proctor, R., 2017. Quality Assurance and Quality Control by Variable. Integrated Marine Observing System, Hobart, 67 pp.


  McKiernan, E.C., P.E. Bourne, C.T. Brown, S. Buck, A. Kenall, J. Lin, D. McDougall, B.A. Nosek, K. Ram, C.K. Soderberg, J.R. Spies, K. Thaney, A. Updegrove, K.H. Woo, and T. Yarkoni. 2016. How open science helps researchers succeed. eLife 5:e16800.


  Miloslavich, P., N.J. Bax, S.E. Simmons, E. Klein, W. Appeltans, O. Aburto-Oropeza, M.A. Garcia, S.D. Batten, L. Benedetti-Cecchi, D.M. Checkley Jr., S. Chiba, J.E. Duffy, D.C.Dunn, A. Fischer, J. Gunn, R. Kudela, F. Marsac, F.E. Muller-Farger, D. Obura, Shin, Y-J. 2018. Essential ocean variables for global sustained observations of biodiversity and ecosystem changes. Global Change Biology 24(6): 2416-2433.


  Muller-Karger, F., P. Miloslavich, N.J. Bax, et al. 2018. Advancing marine biological observations and data requirements of the complementary Essential Ocean Variables (EOVs) and Essential Biodiversity Variables (EBVs) frameworks. Frontiers of Marine Science. [doi.org/10.3389/fmars.2018.00211](https://doi.org/10.3389/fmars.2018.00211).


  National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. 2019. Reproducibility and Replicability in Science. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press. https://doi.org/10.17226/25303.


  NSW Government. 2017. Draft Marine Estate Management Strategy 2018-2028. Marine Estate Management Authority.


  Perkins, N. R., S.D. Foster, N.A. Hill, M.P. Marzloff, and N.S. Barrett. 2017. Temporal and spatial variability in the cover of deep reef species: Implications for monitoring. Ecological Indicators 77:337-347.


  Pearlman J., M. Bushnell, L. Coppola, et al. Evolving and sustaining ocean best practices and standards for the next decade. Frontiers of Marine Science. 6: 277.


  Popkin, G. 2019. Data sharing and how it can benefit your scientific career. Nature. 568: 445-447.


  Przeslawski, R., S. Foster, and J. Monk. 2018. Comparative assessment of benthic sampling platforms. NESP Marine Hub.


  Przeslawski, R., S. Foster, J. Monk, N. Barrett, P. Bouchet, A. Carroll, T. Langlois, V.,Lucieer, J. Williams, and N. Bax. 2019a. A Suite of Field Manuals for Marine Sampling to Monitor Australian Waters. Frontiers of Marine Science_._ 6:177


  Przeslawski, R., L. Bodrossy, A. Carroll, A. Cheal, M. Depczynski, S. Foster, B.D. Hardesty, P. Hedge, T. Langlois, A. Lara-Lopez, A. Lepastrier, S. Mancini, K. Miller, J. Monk, M.Navarro, S. Nichol, S. Sagar, R. Stuart-Smith, J. van de Kamp, J. Williams. 2019b. Scoping of new field manuals for marine sampling in Australian waters. Report to the National Environmental Science Programme, Marine Biodiversity Hub. Geoscience Australia. 


  Przeslawski, R., I. Falkner, S. Foster, S. Mancini, S. Bainbridge, N. Bax, A. Carroll, E. Flukes, M. Gonzalez-Riviero, T. Langlois, K. Moore, M. Rehbein, K. Tattersall, D. Watts, A. Williams, M. Wyatt. 2019c. Data Discoverability and Accessibility: Report from Workshops on Marine Imagery and Biological Specimen Data. Report to the National Environmental Science Program, Marine Biodiversity Hub. Geoscience Australia. 


  Przeslawski, R., N. Barrett, N. Bax, A. Carroll, S. Foster, M. Heupel, J. Jansen, T. Langlois, T. Moltmann, J. Pocklington, R. Stuart-Smith, M. Wyatt. 2019d. Data Discoverability and Accessibility: Report from July 2019 Workshop on Marine Imagery. Report to the National Environmental Science Program, Marine Biodiversity Hub. Geoscience Australia. 


  Salvanes, A.G.V., J. Devine, K.H. Jensen, J.T. Hestutun, K. Sjøtun, H. Glenner. _Marine Ecological Field Methods: a Guide for Marine Biologists and Fisheries Scientists. _John Wiley & Sons: New Jersey. 


  Schramm, K.D., E. Harvey, M.J. Travers, J. Goetze, B. Warnock, B.J. Sanders. 2020. A comparison of stereo-BRUV, diver operated and remote stereo-video transects for assessing reef fish assemblages. Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 524: 151273.


  Sloyan, B.M., T.J. O'Kane. 2015. Drivers of decadal variability in the Tasman Sea. Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans 120, 3193-3210.


  Stocks, K. I., N.J. Stout, and T.M. Shank. 2016. Information management strategies for deep-sea biology. Pages 368-385  Biological Sampling in the Deep Sea. Wiley Blackwell, West Sussex.


  Stuart-Smith, R.D., et al. 2017. Assessing National Biodiversity Trends for Rocky and Coral Reefs through the Integration of Citizen Science and Scientific Monitoring Programs. BioScience 67(2): 134-146.


  Taylor, M. D., R.C. Babcock, C.A. Simpfendorfer, and D.A. Crook. 2017. Where technology meets ecology: acoustic telemetry in contemporary Australian aquatic research and management. Marine and Freshwater Research 68:1397-1402.


  Teixeira, H., T. Berg, L. Uusitalo, K. Fürhaupter, A.-S. Heiskanen, K. Mazik, C. P. Lynam, S. Neville, J. G. Rodriguez, N. Papadopoulou, S. Moncheva, T. Churilova, O. Kryvenko, D. Krause-Jensen, A. Zaiko, H. Veríssimo, M. Pantazi, S. Carvalho, J. Patrício, M. C. Uyarra, and À. Borja. 2016. A Catalogue of Marine Biodiversity Indicators. Frontiers in Marine Science 3.


  Teytelman, L. 2018. No more excuses for non-reproducible methods. Nature 560: 411.


  Thomson, C., Kilminister, K., Hallett, C., Valesini, F., Hipsey, M., Gaughan, D., Summers, R., Syme, G., P., S., 2017. Research and information priorities for estuary management in southwest Western Australia Western  Australian   Marine  Science  Institution, Perth, p. 87.


  Wilkinson, M.D., M. Dumontier, I.J. Aalbersberg, et al. 2016. The FAIR Guiding Principles for scientific data management and stewardship. Scientific Data 3:160018


  Wraith, J., T. Lynch, T.E. Minchinton, A. Broad, and A.R. Davis. 2013. Bait type affects fish assemblages and feeding guilds observed at baited remote underwater video stations. Marine Ecology Progress Series 477:189-199.


  Zipkin, E.F., B.D. Inouye, and S.R. Beissinger. 2019.. Innovations in data integration for modeling populations Ecology  100: e02713
