---
layout: home
permalink: /references
title: "References"
excerpt: " <br>"
image:
  feature: /banners/development_banner.jpg
---
{% include toc.html class="toc-left" h_min=2 h_max=2 %}

  Alory, G., S. Wijffels., G. Meyers. 2007. Observed trends in the Indian Ocean over 1960-1999 and associated mechanisms. Geophysical Research Letters 34, L02606.


  Aither. 2022. Integrated Monitoring and Evaluation Framework for the Marine Integrated Monitoring Program A Live Framework prepared for NSW Department of Primary Industries and Environment.


  AIATSIS 2020. AIATSIS Code of Ethics for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Research. Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies.


  Bouchet, P., Z. Huang, C. Phillips, J. Meeuwig, S. Foster, and R. Przeslawski. 2018. Comparative assessment of pelagic sampling platforms. University of Western Australia, Perth.


  Bowden, D. A., M. R. Clark, J. E. Hewitt, A. A. Rowden, D. Leduc, and S. J. Baird. 2015. Designing a programme to monitor trends in deep-water benthic communities. Wellington.


  Carroll, A.G., D.C. Jorgensen, P.J.W.,Siwabessy, L.E.A. Jones., M.J. Sexton, M. Tran, W.A. Nicholas, L.C. Radke, M.P. Carey, F.J.F. Howard, M.J. Stowar, A.J. Heyward, A. Potter, and Shipboard Party, 2012. Seabed environments and shallow geology of the Petrel Sub-Basin, northern Australia: SOL5463 (GA0335) - post survey report. Record 2012/66. Geoscience Australia: Canberra.


  Carroll, S., Garbai, I., Figueroa-Rodriguez, O. et al. 2020. The CARE principle for Indigenous data governance. Data Science Journal 19.


  Cinner, J.E., J. Zamborain-Mason, G.G. Gurney et al. 2020. Meeting fisheries, ecosystem funciton, and biodiveristy goals in a human-dominated world. Science 368 (6488): 307-311.


  Cochrane, P. 2016. The marine protected area estate in Australian (Commonwealth) waters. Pages 45-63 _in_ J. Fitzsimons and G. Westcott, editors. Big, Bold and Blue. CSIRO.


  De’ath, G., K. E. Fabricius, H. Sweatman, and M. Puotinen. 2012. The 27–year decline of coral cover on the Great Barrier Reef and its causes. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 109:17995-17999.


  Department of Biodiversity Conservation and Attractions. 2017. Marine Conservation Research. Government of Western Australia. [https://www.dpaw.wa.gov.au/about-us/science-and-research/marine-research](https://www.dpaw.wa.gov.au/about-us/science-and-research/marine-research)


  Donner, S.D., G.J.M. Rickbeil, and S.F. Heron. 2017 A new, high-resolution global mass coral bleaching database. PLoS ONE 12(4): e0175490. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0175490


  Duffy, J.E., L.A. Amaral-Zettler, D.G. Fautin, G. Paulay, T.A. Rynearson, H. M. Sosik, and J. J. Stachowicz. 2013. Envisioning a Marine Biodiversity Observation Network. BioScience 63:350-361.


  Durden, J.M., B.J. Bett, T. Schoening, K.J. Morris, T.W. Nattkemper, and H.A. Ruhl. 2016. Comparison of image annotation data generated by multiple investigators for benthic ecology. Marine Ecology Progress Series 552:61-70.


  Evans, K., N. Bax., and D. Smith. 2017. Australia state of the environment 2016: Marine Chapter. Independent report to the Australian Government Minister for Environment and Energy, Department of the Environment and Energy, Canberra.


  Fancy, S., G.J.E. Gross, and S.L. Carter. 2009. Monitoring the condition of natural resources in US national parks. Environmental Monitoring and Assessment 151:161-174.


  Fischer, M., Maxwell, K., Nuunoq, Pedersen, H., Greeno, D., Jingwas, N., Blair, J.G., Hugu, S., Mustonen, T., Murtomäki, E., and Mustonen, K. 2022. Empowering her guardians to nurture our Ocean’s future. Review in Fish Biology and Fisheries 32:271-296.


  Foster, S.D., Hosack, G.R., Monk, J., Lawrence, E., Barrett, N.S., Williams, A., Przeslawski, R. 2019. Spatially balanced designs for transect-based surveys. Methods in Ecology and Evolution 11:95-105.


  Foster, S.D., Hosack, G.R., Lawrence, E., Przeslawski, R., Hedge, P., Caley, M.J., Barrett, N.S., Williams, A., Li, J., Lynch, T., Dambacher, J.M., Sweatman, .P.A., and Hayes, K. 2017. Spatially balanced designs that incorporate legacy sites. Methods in Ecology and Evolution 8:1433-1442.


  GBRMPA. 2015. Reef 2050 Integrated Monitoring and Reporting Program Strategy. Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority & Queensland Government, Townsville.


  Golden, J.S., J. Virdin, D. Nowacek, P. Halpin, L. Bennear, and P. G. Patil. 2017. Making sure the blue economy is green. Nature Ecology and Evolution 1:0017.


  Hayes, K.R., J.M. Dambacher, P.T. Hedge, D. Watts, S. D. Foster, P.A. Thompson, G.R. Hosack, P.K. Dunstan, and N.J. Bax. 2015. Towards a blueprint for monitoring Key Ecological features in the Commonwealth Marine Area. NERP Marine Biodiversity Hub, Hobart.


  Hayes, K.R., G.R. Hosack, E. Lawrence, P. Hedge, N. Barrett, R. Przeslawski, M.J. Caley, S.D. Foster. 2019. Designing Monitoring Programs for Marine Protected Areas Within an Evidence Based Decision Making Paradigm Frontiers in Marine Science 6: 746.


  Hedge, P., Souter, D., Jordan, A., Trebilco, R., Ward, T., van Ruth, P., Cowlishaw, M., Lara-Lopez, A., Barrett, N., Thornborough, K., Nichol, S., Przeslawski, R., Parr, A., Kendrick, A., Holmes, T., Pattiaratchi, C., and Ferns, L. 2021. Establishing and supporting a national marine baselines and monitoring program. A report from the Baselines and Monitoring Working Group prepared for Australia’s National Marine Science.


  Hedge, P., van Putten, E.I., Hunter, C. and Fischer, M. 2020. Perceptions, motivations, and practices for Indigenous engagement in marine science in Australia. Frontiers in Marine Science 7.


  Hedge, P., F. Molloy, H. Sweatman, K. Hayes, J. Dambacher, J. Chandler, M. Gooch, A. Chinn, N. Bax, and T. Walshe. 2013. An Integrated Monitoring Framework for the Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area. Department of the Environment, Canberra.


  Hosie, G. W., M. Fukuchi, and S. Kawaguchi. 2003. Development of the Southern Ocean Continuous Plankton Recorder survey. Progress in Oceanography 58:263-283.


  Katija, K., Orenstein, E., Schlining, B., Lundsten, L., Barnard, K., Sainz, G., Boulais, O., Cromwell, M., Butler, E., Woodward, B., and Bell, K.L.C. FathomNet: A global image database for enabling artificial intelligence in the ocean. Scientific Reports 12.


  Lara-Lopez, A., Moltmann, T., Mancini, S., Proctor, R., 2017. Quality Assurance and Quality Control by Variable. Integrated Marine Observing System, Hobart, 67 pp.


  McKiernan, E.C., P.E. Bourne, C.T. Brown, S. Buck, A. Kenall, J. Lin, D. McDougall, B.A. Nosek, K. Ram, C.K. Soderberg, J.R. Spies, K. Thaney, A. Updegrove, K.H. Woo, and T. Yarkoni. 2016. How open science helps researchers succeed. eLife 5:e16800.


  Miloslavich, P., N.J. Bax, S.E. Simmons, E. Klein, W. Appeltans, O. Aburto-Oropeza, M.A. Garcia, S.D. Batten, L. Benedetti-Cecchi, D.M. Checkley Jr., S. Chiba, J.E. Duffy, D.C.Dunn, A. Fischer, J. Gunn, R. Kudela, F. Marsac, F.E. Muller-Farger, D. Obura, Shin, Y-J. 2018. Essential ocean variables for global sustained observations of biodiversity and ecosystem changes. Global Change Biology 24(6): 2416-2433.


  Muller-Karger, F., P. Miloslavich, N.J. Bax, et al. 2018. Advancing marine biological observations and data requirements of the complementary Essential Ocean Variables (EOVs) and Essential Biodiversity Variables (EBVs) frameworks. Frontiers of Marine Science. [doi.org/10.3389/fmars.2018.00211](https://doi.org/10.3389/fmars.2018.00211).


  National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. 2019. Reproducibility and Replicability in Science. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press. https://doi.org/10.17226/25303.


  Pecl, G.T., Stuart-Smith, J., Walsh, P., Bray, D.J., Kusetic, M., Burgess, M., Frusher, S.D., Gledhill, D.C., George, O., Jackson, G., Keane, J., Martin, V.Y., Nursey-Bray, M., Pender, A., Robinson, L.M., Rowling, K., Sheaves, M., and Moltschaniwskyj, N. 2019. Redmap Australia: Challenges and successes with a large-scale citizen science-based approach to ecological monitoring and community engagement on climate change. Frontiers of Marine Science 6.


  Perkins, N. R., S.D. Foster, N.A. Hill, M.P. Marzloff, and N.S. Barrett. 2017. Temporal and spatial variability in the cover of deep reef species: Implications for monitoring. Ecological Indicators 77:337-347.


  Pearlman J., M. Bushnell, L. Coppola, et al. Evolving and sustaining ocean best practices and standards for the next decade. Frontiers of Marine Science. 6: 277.


  Popkin, G. 2019. Data sharing and how it can benefit your scientific career. Nature. 568: 445-447.


  Przeslawski, R., S. Foster, and J. Monk. 2018. Comparative assessment of benthic sampling platforms. NESP Marine Hub.


  Przeslawski, R., S. Foster, J. Monk, N. Barrett, P. Bouchet, A. Carroll, T. Langlois, V.,Lucieer, J. Williams, and N. Bax. 2019a. A Suite of Field Manuals for Marine Sampling to Monitor Australian Waters. Frontiers of Marine Science_._ 6:177


  Przeslawski, R., L. Bodrossy, A. Carroll, A. Cheal, M. Depczynski, S. Foster, B.D. Hardesty, P. Hedge, T. Langlois, A. Lara-Lopez, A. Lepastrier, S. Mancini, K. Miller, J. Monk, M.Navarro, S. Nichol, S. Sagar, R. Stuart-Smith, J. van de Kamp, J. Williams. 2019b. Scoping of new field manuals for marine sampling in Australian waters. Report to the National Environmental Science Programme, Marine Biodiversity Hub. Geoscience Australia. 


  Przeslawski, R., I. Falkner, S. Foster, S. Mancini, S. Bainbridge, N. Bax, A. Carroll, E. Flukes, M. Gonzalez-Riviero, T. Langlois, K. Moore, M. Rehbein, K. Tattersall, D. Watts, A. Williams, M. Wyatt. 2019c. Data Discoverability and Accessibility: Report from Workshops on Marine Imagery and Biological Specimen Data. Report to the National Environmental Science Program, Marine Biodiversity Hub. Geoscience Australia. 


  Przeslawski, R., N. Barrett, N. Bax, A. Carroll, S. Foster, M. Heupel, J. Jansen, T. Langlois, T. Moltmann, J. Pocklington, R. Stuart-Smith, M. Wyatt. 2019d. Data Discoverability and Accessibility: Report from July 2019 Workshop on Marine Imagery. Report to the National Environmental Science Program, Marine Biodiversity Hub. Geoscience Australia. 


  Przeslawski, R., Foster, S., Gibbons, B., Langlois, T., and Monk, J. 2021. Impact and Outcomes of Marine Sampling Best Practices. Report to the National Environmental Science Program, Marine Biodiversity Hub. Geoscience Australia.


  Przeslawski, R., Barrett, N., Carroll, A., Foster, S., Gibbons, B., Jordan, A., Monk, J., Langlois, T., Lara-Lopez, A., Pearlman, J., Picard, K., Pini-Fitzsimmons, J., van Ruth, P., Williams, J. 2023. Developing an ocean best practice: A case study of marine sampling practices from Australia. Frontiers in Marine Science 10.


  Reid, A.J., Eckert, L.E., Lane, J-F., Young, N., Hinch, S.G., Darimont, C.T., Cooke, S.J., Ban, N.C. and Marshall, A. 2020. ‘Two-Eyed Seeing’: An Indigenous framework to transform fisheries research and management. Fish and Fisheries 22:243-261.


  Schramm, K.D., E. Harvey, M.J. Travers, J. Goetze, B. Warnock, B.J. Sanders. 2020. A comparison of stereo-BRUV, diver operated and remote stereo-video transects for assessing reef fish assemblages. Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 524: 151273.


  Sloyan, B.M., T.J. O'Kane. 2015. Drivers of decadal variability in the Tasman Sea. Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans 120, 3193-3210.


  Stocks, K. I., N.J. Stout, and T.M. Shank. 2016. Information management strategies for deep-sea biology. Pages 368-385 Biological Sampling in the Deep Sea. Wiley Blackwell, West Sussex.


  Stuart-Smith, R.D., et al. 2017. Assessing National Biodiversity Trends for Rocky and Coral Reefs through the Integration of Citizen Science and Scientific Monitoring Programs. BioScience 67(2): 134-146.


  Taylor, M. D., R.C. Babcock, C.A. Simpfendorfer, and D.A. Crook. 2017. Where technology meets ecology: acoustic telemetry in contemporary Australian aquatic research and management. Marine and Freshwater Research 68:1397-1402.


  Teixeira, H., T. Berg, L. Uusitalo, K. Fürhaupter, A.-S. Heiskanen, K. Mazik, C. P. Lynam, S. Neville, J. G. Rodriguez, N. Papadopoulou, S. Moncheva, T. Churilova, O. Kryvenko, D. Krause-Jensen, A. Zaiko, H. Veríssimo, M. Pantazi, S. Carvalho, J. Patrício, M. C. Uyarra, and À. Borja. 2016. A Catalogue of Marine Biodiversity Indicators. Frontiers in Marine Science 3.


  Teytelman, L. 2018. No more excuses for non-reproducible methods. Nature 560: 411.


  Thomson, C., Kilminister, K., Hallett, C., Valesini, F., Hipsey, M., Gaughan, D., Summers, R., Syme, G., P., S., 2017. Research and information priorities for estuary management in southwest Western Australia Western Australian  Marine Science Institution, Perth, p. 87.


  van de Kamp, J., Brown, M., Ostrowski, M., Seymour, J., Smith, M., Raes, E., Karsh, K., Holmes, B., Bodrossy, L., and Bissett, A. 2019. Australian Microbiome Initiative - towards microbial omics at the continental scale. Geophysical Research Abstracts 21.


  Wilkinson, M.D., M. Dumontier, I.J. Aalbersberg, et al. 2016. The FAIR Guiding Principles for scientific data management and stewardship. Scientific Data 3:160018


  Wraith, J., T. Lynch, T.E. Minchinton, A. Broad, and A.R. Davis. 2013. Bait type affects fish assemblages and feeding guilds observed at baited remote underwater video stations. Marine Ecology Progress Series 477:189-199.


  Zipkin, E.F., B.D. Inouye, and S.R. Beissinger. 2019.. Innovations in data integration for modeling populations Ecology 100: e02713
